Added discord-app-commands.md (#733)
discord-python/site: pydis_site/apps/content/resources/guides/python-guides/app_commands.md

# DISCORD.PY RESUMATION CHANGES

---

> Upon resumation of the most popular discord API wrapper library for python, `discord.py`, while catching on to the latest features of the discord API, there have been numerous changes with addition of features to the library. Some additions to the library are -> Buttons support, Select Menus Support, Forms (AKA Modals), Slash Commands (AKA Application Commands) and a bunch of more handy features! All the changes can be found [here](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/migrating.html). Original discord.py gist regarding resumation can be found [here](https://gist.github.com/Rapptz/c4324f17a80c94776832430007ad40e6).

Reviewer: Nit: I believe `resumation` is not an English word, `resumption` should be the one you're looking for.

> Upon resumption of the most popular discord API wrapper library for python, `discord.py`, while catching on to the latest features of the discord API, there have been numerous changes with addition of features to the library. Some additions to the library are -> Buttons support, Select Menus Support, Forms (AKA Modals), Slash Commands (AKA Application Commands) and a bunch of more handy features! All the changes can be found [here](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/migrating.html). Original discord.py gist regarding resumation can be found [here](https://gist.github.com/Rapptz/c4324f17a80c94776832430007ad40e6).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upon resumption of the most popular discord API wrapper library for python, `discord.py`, while catching on to the latest features of the discord API, there have been numerous changes with addition of features to the library. Some additions to the library are -> Buttons support, Select Menus Support, Forms (AKA Modals), Slash Commands (AKA Application Commands) and a bunch of more handy features! All the changes can be found [here](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/migrating.html). Original discord.py gist regarding resumption can be found [here](https://gist.github.com/Rapptz/c4324f17a80c94776832430007ad40e6).
```

> # Why this gist?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Why this Gist?
```

---

This Gist is being created as an update to Slash Commands (app commands) with explanation and examples. This Gist mainly focuses on **SLASH COMMANDS** for discord.py 2.0 (and above)!

> # What Are Slash Commands?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# What are Slash Commands?
```

---

> Slash Commands are the exciting way to build and interact with bots on Discord. With Slash Commands, all you have to do is type / and you're ready to use your favourite bot. You can easily see all the commands a bot has, and validation and error handling help you get the command right the first time.

Reviewer: Suggestion: 
Slash Commands are the exciting **new** way to build ...

> Slash Commands are the exciting new way to build and interact with bots on Discord. With Slash Commands, all you have to do is type / and you're ready to use your favourite bot. You can easily see all the commands a bot has, and validation and error handling help you get the command right the first time.

Reviewer: I suggest we change this to
As soon as you type "/", you can easily see all the commands a bot has. It also comes with autocomplete, validation and error, which will all help you get the command right the first time.

> # Install the latest version for discord.py

Reviewer: Nit: Install the latest version **of** discord.py
It's a small nuance, but i think "of" is more suitable

---

> To use slash commands with discord.py. The latest up-to-date version has to be installed. Make sure that the version is 2.0 or above!

Reviewer: Nit: You've been capitalizing "Slash Commands" from the start, so I think it's better to stay consistent. ( There are a couple of them, so a small CTRL + F will let you know which ones to change)

And make sure to uninstall any third party libraries that support Slash Commands for discord.py (if any) as a few of them [monkey patch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monkey_patch#:~:text=A%20monkey%20patch%20is%20a,running%20instance%20of%20the%20program) discord.py!

> The latest and up-to-date usable discord.py version can be installed using `pip install -U git+https://github.com/Rapptz/discord.py`.

Reviewer 2: We could advise users on how to install discord.py as they would normally, as it's now on PyPi

> If you get an error such as: `'git' is not recognized...`. [Install git](https://git-scm.com/downloads) for your platform. Go through the required steps for installing git and make sure to enable the `add to path` option while in the installation wizard. After installing git you can run `pip install -U git+https://github.com/Rapptz/discord.py` again to install discord.py 2.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you get an error such as: `'git' is not recognized...`, it means that you don't have it installed on your platform. In that case, you will need to do do so by going through the required steps for [installing git](https://git-scm.com/downloads) and make sure to enable the `add to path` option while in the installation wizard. After installing git you can run `pip install -U git+https://github.com/Rapptz/discord.py` again to install discord.py 2.0.
```

**BEFORE MIGRATING TO DISCORD.PY 2.0, PLEASE READ THE CONSEQUENCES OF THE UPDATE [HERE](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/migrating.html)**.

> # Basic Structure for Discord.py Slash Commands!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Basic structure for discord.py Slash Commands!
```
Danny chose to keep the "d" in lowercase :p

---

### Note that Slash Commands in discord.py are also referred to as **Application Commmands** and **App Commands** and every *interaction* is a *webhook*.
Slash commands in discord.py are held by a container, [CommandTree](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/interactions/api.html?highlight=commandtree#discord.app_commands.CommandTree). A command tree is required to create Slash Commands in discord.py. This command tree provides a `command` method which decorates an asynchronous function indicating to discord.py that the decorated function is intended to be a slash command. This asynchronous function expects a default argument which acts as the interaction which took place that invoked the slash command. This default argument is an instance of the **Interaction** class from discord.py. Further up, the command logic takes over the behaviour of the slash command.

> # Fundamentals for this gist!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Fundamentals for this Gist!
```

---

> The fundamental for this gist will remain to be the `setup_hook`. The `setup_hook` is a special asynchronous method of the Client and Bot class which can be overwritten to perform numerous tasks. This method is safe to use as it is always triggered before any events are dispatched, i.e. this method is triggered before the *IDENTIFY* payload is sent to the discord gateway.

Reviewer: Nit: Client and Bot classes *

Note that methods of the Bot class such as `change_presence` will not work in setup_hook as the current application does not have an active connection to the gateway at this point.

> __**FOLLOWING IS THE EXAMPLE OF HOW A `SETUP_HOOK` FUNCTION CAN BE DEFINED**__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
__**FOLLOWING ARE EXAMPLEs OF HOW A `SETUP_HOOK` FUNCTION CAN BE DEFINED**__
```

That's because we provide 2 examples here

```python
import discord

'''This is one way of creating a "setup_hook" method'''

class SlashClient(discord.Client):

>     def __init__(self) -> None:

Reviewer: Question: I think this example won't work since privileged intents are required, would it ?
We might need to add a disclaimer here on these intents & point the users to our guides on these intents

Reviewer 3: We'll probably have a guide on it in the future.

        super().__init__(intents=discord.Intents.default())

    async def setup_hook(self) -> None:
        ...

'''Another way of creating a "setup_hook" is as follows'''

client = discord.Client(intents=discord.Intents.default())
async def my_setup_hook() -> None:
    ...

client.setup_hook = my_setup_hook
```

# Basic Slash Command application using discord.py.

> #### The `CommandTree` class resides within the `app_commands` of discord.py package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### The `CommandTree` class resides within the `app_commands` of the discord.py package.
```

---

> ## Slash Command Application with a Client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Slash Command application with a Client
```

```python
import discord

class SlashClient(discord.Client):
    def __init__(self) -> None:

>         super().__init__(intents=discord.Intents.default())

Reviewer: Same thing for the intents here

        self.tree = discord.app_commands.CommandTree(self)

    async def setup_hook(self) -> None:
        self.tree.copy_global_to(guild=discord.Object(id=12345678900987654))
        await self.tree.sync()

client = SlashClient()

@client.tree.command(name="ping", description="...")
async def _ping(interaction: discord.Interaction) -> None:
    await interaction.response.send_message("pong")

client.run("token")
```

__**EXPLANATION**__

- `import discord` imports the **discord.py** package.
- `class SlashClient(discord.Client)` is a class subclassing **Client**. Though there is no particular reason except readability to subclass the **Client** class, using the `Client.setup_hook = my_func` is equally valid.
- Next up `super().__init__(...)` runs the `__init__` function of the **Client** class, this is equivalent to `discord.Client(...)`. Then, `self.tree = discord.app_commands.CommandTree(self)` creates a CommandTree which acts as the container for slash commaands.

> - Then in the `setup_hook`, `self.tree.copy_global_to(...)` adds the slash command to the guild of which the ID is provided as a `discord.Object` object. Further up, `self.tree.sync()` updates the API with any changes to the Slash Commands.

Reviewer 2: Emphasize this. A lot. I see too many times people asking "why can't I see my slash commands on Discord"? The answer, nine times out of ten, is that they forgot to sync.

- Finishing up with the **Client** subclass, we create an instance of the subclassed Client class which here has been named as `SlashClient` with `client = SlashClient()`.
- Then using the `command` method of the `CommandTree` we decorate a function with it as `client.tree` is an instance of `CommandTree` for the current application. The command function takes a default argument as said, which acts as the interaction that took place. Catching up is `await interaction.response.send_message("pong")` which sends back a message to the slash command invoker.
- And the classic old `client.run("token")` is used to connect the client to the discord gateway.

> - Note that the `send_message` is a method of the `InteractionResponse` class and `interaction.response` in this case is an instance of the `InteractionResponse` object. The `send_message` method will not function if the response is not sent within 3 seconds of command invocation. We will discuss how to handle this issue later following the gist.

Reviewer: Nit: We will discuss how to handle this issue later following the Gist.*

I'm actually not sure anymore, I've seen two utilizations of this, one being "Gist" and the other being "gist".
So I'll leave that to you, I just think they need to stay consistent

Reviewer 3: I'll just have it as `Gist` to keep it consistent.

> - Note that the `send_message` is a method of the `InteractionResponse` class and `interaction.response` in this case is an instance of the `InteractionResponse` object. The `send_message` method will not function if the response is not sent within 3 seconds of command invocation. I will discuss about how to handle this issue later following the gist.

Reviewer: Suggestion: I don't think that we should use the personal pronoun "I" in documentations, so changing it to "We" is better IMO.

> ## Slash Command Application with a Bot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Slash Command application with the Bot class
```

```python
import discord

class SlashBot(commands.Bot):
    def __init__(self) -> None:

>         super().__init__(command_prefix=".", intents=discord.Intents.default())

Reviewer: As I see there are 3 instances of these default intents so far, I think it'll just be better to put a disclaimer before we start illustrating the usages of Slash commands

Reviewer 3: I've made a note above the first instance of `discord.Intents.default()` with a link to the factory, along with what's excluded from all the intents.

    async def setup_hook(self) -> None:
        self.tree.copy_global_to(guild=discord.Object(id=12345678900987654))
        await self.tree.sync()

bot = SlashBot()

@bot.tree.command(name="ping", description="...")
async def _ping(interaction: discord.Interaction) -> None:
    await interaction.response.send_message("pong")

bot.run("token")
```

The above example shows a basic Slash Commands within discord.py using the Bot class.

__**EXPLANATION**__

> Most of the explanation is the same as the prior example which featured `SlashClient` which was a subclass of **discord.Client**. Though some minor changes are discussed below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the explanation is the same as the prior example that featured `SlashClient` which was a subclass of **discord.Client**. Though some minor changes are discussed below.
```
Just to avoid repetition

# Slash Commands within a Cog!

---

A cog is a collection of commands, listeners, and optional state to help group commands together. More information on them can be found on the [Cogs](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ext/commands/cogs.html#ext-commands-cogs) page.

## An Example to using cogs with discord.py for Slash Commands!

```python
import discord
from discord.ext import commands
from discord import app_commands

class MySlashCog(commands.Cog):
    def __init__(self, bot: commands.Bot) -> None:
        self.bot = bot

    @app_commands.command(name="ping", description="...")
    async def _ping(self, interaction: discord.Interaction):
        await interaction.response.send_message("pong!")

class MySlashBot(commands.Bot):
    def __init__(self) -> None:
        super().__init__(command_prefix="!", intents=discord.Intents.default())

    async def setup_hook(self) -> None:
        await self.add_cog(MySlashCog(self))
        await self.tree.copy_global_to(discord.Object(id=123456789098765432))
        await self.tree.sync()

bot = MySlashBot()

bot.run("token")
```

__**EXPLANATION**__

> - Firstly, `import discord` imports the **discord.py** package. `from discord import app_commands` imports the `app_commands` directory from the **discord.py** root directory. `from discord.ext import commands` imports the commands extension.

Reviewer: Do we want to use the "directory" terminology here ? Since in python we talk about packages and modules ?

Reviewer 3: `directory` should be `module` in this case.

        await self.tree.sync()

bot = MySlashBot()

bot.run("token")
```

__**EXPLANATION**__
- The only difference here too is that the `MySlashGroup` class directly subclasses the **Group** class from discord.app_commands which automatically registers all the methods within the group class to be commands of that specific group. So now, the commands such as `ping` can be run using **/uwu ping** and `command` using **/uwu command**.

# Some common methods and features used for Slash Commands.

---

### A common function used for Slash Commands is the `describe` function. This is used to add descriptions to the arguments of a slash command. The command function can decorated with this function. It goes by the following syntax as shown below.

```python
from discord.ext import commands
from discord import app_commands
import discord

bot = commands.Bot(command_prefix=".", intents=discord.Intents.default())
#sync the commands

@bot.tree.command(name="echo", description="...")
@app_commands.describe(text="The text to send!", channel="The channel to send the message in!")
async def _echo(interaction: discord.Interaction, text: str, channel: discord.TextChannel=None):

>     channel = interaction.channel or channel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    channel = channel or interaction.channel
```
Makes more sense like this

    await channel.send(text)
```

> ### Another common issue that most people come across is the time duraction of sending a message with `send_message`. This issue can be tackled by deferring the interaction response using the `defer` method of the `InteractionResponse` class. An example for fixing this issue is shown below.

Reviewer: Nit: You have a typo in "ducation", it should be "duration"

---

Slash Commands within discord.py can be applied cooldowns to in order to prevent spamming of the commands. This can be done through the `discord.app_commands.checks.cooldown` method which can be used to decorate a slash command function and register a cooldown to the function. This raises a [CommandOnCooldown](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/interactions/api.html?highlight=checks%20cooldown#discord.app_commands.CommandOnCooldown) exception if the command is currently on cooldown.
An example is as follows.

```python
from discord.ext import commands
import discord

class Bot(commands.Bot):
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__(command_prefix="uwu", intents=discord.Intents.all())

    async def setup_hook(self):
        self.tree.copy_global_to(guild=discord.Object(id=12345678909876543))
        await self.tree.sync()

bot = Bot()

@bot.tree.command(name="ping")
# -----------------------------------------
@discord.app_commands.checks.cooldown(1, 30)
# -----------------------------------------
async def ping(interaction: discord.Interaction):
    await interaction.response.send_message("pong!")

bot.run("token")
```

__**EXPLANATION**__

> - The first argument the `cooldown` method takes is the number of times this command can be invoked in a particular unit of time (Which will be defined in the following argument).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The first argument is the number of times this command can be invoked before the cooldown is triggered.
- The second argument is the the amount of seconds to wait for a cooldown to finish once it’s been triggered.
```
What do you think ? I got them from the official docs (with a tiny tweek) & found them to be straight to the point.

Reviewer 3: I agree with your statement.

> - The first argument the `cooldown` method takes is the amount of times the command can be run in a specific period of time.

Reviewer: Suggestion: The first argument the `cooldown` method takes is is the number of times this command can be invoked in a particular unit of time ( Which will be defined in the following argument)

An example to creating an error handler for slash commands is as follows.

```python
from discord.ext import commands
from discord import app_commands
import discord

bot = commands.Bot(command_prefix="!", intents=discord.Intents.default())
#sync commands

@bot.tree.command(name="ping")
@app_commands.checks.cooldown(1, 30)
async def ping(interaction: discord.Interaction):
    await interaction.response.send_message("pong!")

async def on_tree_error(interaction: discord.Interaction, error: app_commands.AppCommandError):
    if isinstance(error, app_commands.CommandOnCooldown):
        return await interaction.response.send_message(f"Command is currently on cooldown! Try again in **{error.retry_after:.2f}** seconds!")

    elif isinstance(..., ...):
        ...

    else:
        raise error

bot.tree.on_error = on_tree_error

bot.run("token")
```

__**EXPLANATION**__

> First we create a simple function named as `on_tree_error` here. To which the first two required arguments are passed, `Interaction` which is named as `interaction` here and `AppCommandError` which is named as `error` here. Then using simple functions and keywords, we make an error handler like above. Here I have used the `isinstance` function which takes in an object and a base class as the second argument, this function returns a bool value. The `raise error` is just for displaying unhandled errors, i.e. the ones which have not been handled manually. If this is **removed**, you will not be able to see any exceptions raised by slash commands and makes debugging the code harder.

Reviewer: Suggestion: First we create a simple asynchronous function named ...

---

> Upon resumption of the most popular discord API wrapper library for python, `discord.py`, while catching on to the latest features of the discord API, there have been numerous changes with addition of features to the library. Some additions to the library are -> Buttons support, Select Menus Support, Forms (AKA Modals), Slash Commands (AKA Application Commands) and a bunch of more handy features! All the changes can be found [here](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/migrating.html). Original discord.py Gist regarding resumption can be found [here](https://Gist.github.com/Rapptz/c4324f17a80c94776832430007ad40e6).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upon resumption of the most popular discord API wrapper library for python, `discord.py`, while catching on to the latest features of the discord API, there have been numerous changes with addition of features to the library. Some additions to the library are -> Buttons support, Select Menus Support, Forms (AKA Modals), Slash Commands (AKA Application Commands) and a bunch of more handy features! All the changes can be found [here](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/migrating.html). Original discord.py Gist regarding resumption can be found [here](https://gist.github.com/Rapptz/c4324f17a80c94776832430007ad40e6).
```
I know it's case insensitive but, better keep the original

Reviewer 3: oops lol

# Why this Gist?

---

This Gist is being created as an update to Slash Commands (app commands) with explanation and examples. This Gist mainly focuses on **SLASH COMMANDS** for discord.py 2.0 (and above)!

# What are Slash Commands?

---

Slash Commands are the exciting new way to build and interact with bots on Discord. As soon as you type "/", you can easily see all the commands a bot has. It also comes with autocomplete, validation and error handling, which will all help you get the command right the first time.

# Install the latest version of discord.py

---
To use Slash Commands with discord.py. The latest up-to-date version has to be installed. Make sure that the version is 2.0 or above!
And make sure to uninstall any third party libraries that support Slash Commands for discord.py (if any) as a few of them [monkey patch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monkey_patch#:~:text=A%20monkey%20patch%20is%20a,running%20instance%20of%20the%20program) discord.py!

> The latest and up-to-date usable discord.py version can be installed using `pip install -U discord.py`. If you get an error such as: `'git' is not recognized...`, it means that you don't have it installed on your platform. In that case, you will need to do do so by going through the required steps for [installing git](https://git-scm.com/downloads) and make sure to enable the `add to path` option while in the installation wizard. After installing git you can run `pip install -U discord.py` again to install discord.py 2.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The latest and up-to-date usable discord.py version can be installed using `pip install -U discord.py`. If you get an error such as: `'git' is not recognized...`, it means that you don't have git installed on your platform. In that case, you will need to do so by going through the required steps for [installing git](https://git-scm.com/downloads) and make sure to enable the `add to path` option while in the installation wizard. After installing git you can run `pip install -U discord.py` again to install discord.py 2.0
```

```

__**EXPLANATION**__

> - The only difference used here is `group = app_commands.Group(name="uwu", description="...")` and `group.command`. `app_commands.Group` is used to initiate a group while `group.command` reGisters a command under a group. For example, the ping command can be run using **/ping** but this is not the case for group commands. They are reGistered with the format of `group_name command_name`. So here, the **command** command of the **uwu** group would be run using **/uwu command**. Note that only group commands can have a single space between them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The only difference used here is `group = app_commands.Group(name="uwu", description="...")` and `group.command`. `app_commands.Group` is used to initiate a group while `group.command` registers a command under a group. For example, the ping command can be run using **/ping** but this is not the case for group commands. They are registered with the format of `group_name command_name`. So here, the **command** command of the **uwu** group would be run using **/uwu command**. Note that only group commands can have a single space between them.
```
The replace all didn't work as intended :p

```

__**EXPLANATION**__

> - The only difference here too is that the `MySlashGroup` class directly subclasses the **Group** class from discord.app_commands which automatically reGisters all the methods within the group class to be commands of that specific group. So now, the commands such as `ping` can be run using **/uwu ping** and `command` using **/uwu command**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The only difference here too is that the `MySlashGroup` class directly subclasses the **Group** class from discord.app_commands which automatically registers all the methods within the group class to be commands of that specific group. So now, the commands such as `ping` can be run using **/uwu ping** and `command` using **/uwu command**.
```

---

> Slash Commands within discord.py can be applied cooldowns to in order to prevent spamming of the commands. This can be done through the `discord.app_commands.checks.cooldown` method which can be used to decorate a slash command function and reGister a cooldown to the function. This raises a [CommandOnCooldown](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/interactions/api.html?highlight=checks%20cooldown#discord.app_commands.CommandOnCooldown) exception if the command is currently on cooldown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Slash Commands within discord.py can be applied cooldowns to in order to prevent spamming of the commands. This can be done through the `discord.app_commands.checks.cooldown` method which can be used to decorate a slash command function and register a cooldown to the function. This raises a [CommandOnCooldown](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/interactions/api.html?highlight=checks%20cooldown#discord.app_commands.CommandOnCooldown) exception if the command is currently on cooldown.
```
